NOTICE.md, before:

# Notices for Eclipse Tractus-X

This content is produced and maintained by the Eclipse Tractus-X project.

* Project home: https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx

See the AUTHORS file(s) distributed with this work for additional information regarding authorship.

## Trademarks

Eclipse Tractus-X is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation.

## Copyright

All content is the property of the respective authors or their employers. For
more information regarding authorship of content, please consult the listed
source code repository logs.

## Declared Project Licenses

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms
of the Apache License, Version 2.0 which is available at
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

## Source Code

The project maintains the following source code repositories
in the GitHub organization https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx:

* https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/bpdm


## Third-party Content

This project leverages the following third party content.

See [DEPENDENCIES](DEPENDENCIES) file.

## Cryptography

Content may contain encryption software. The country in which you are currently
may have restrictions on the import, possession, and use, and/or re-export to
another country, of encryption software. BEFORE using any encryption software,
please check the country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the import,
possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to see if this is
permitted.

Commit message:

feat(pool regions): Initial load of regions according to ISO-3166-2 from CVS - File

NOTICE.md, after:

# Notices for Eclipse Tractus-X

This content is produced and maintained by the Eclipse Tractus-X project.

* Project home: https://projects.eclipse.org/projects/automotive.tractusx

See the AUTHORS file(s) distributed with this work for additional information regarding authorship.

## Trademarks

Eclipse Tractus-X is a trademark of the Eclipse Foundation.

## Copyright

All content is the property of the respective authors or their employers. For
more information regarding authorship of content, please consult the listed
source code repository logs.

## Declared Project Licenses

This program and the accompanying materials are made available under the terms
of the Apache License, Version 2.0 which is available at
https://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0.

SPDX-License-Identifier: Apache-2.0

## Source Code

The project maintains the following source code repositories
in the GitHub organization https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx:

* https://github.com/eclipse-tractusx/bpdm

## Third-party Content

This project leverages the following third party content.

See [DEPENDENCIES](DEPENDENCIES) file.

### Regions

The initial load of the regions according to ISO-3166-2 is done from the CSV file at:

`bpdm-pool/src/main/resources/regions/IP2LOCATION-ISO3166-2.CSV`

This file is under the following license:

`This works is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 4.0 International (CC BY-SA 4.0).`

`"This site or product includes IP2Location™ ISO 3166-2 Subdivision Code which available from https://www.ip2location.com."`

## Cryptography

Content may contain encryption software. The country in which you are currently
may have restrictions on the import, possession, and use, and/or re-export to
another country, of encryption software. BEFORE using any encryption software,
please check the country's laws, regulations and policies concerning the import,
possession, or use, and re-export of encryption software, to see if this is
permitted.
